Welcome to JW Broadcasting. What's in store for us this month? If you've ever
struggled with feelings of inadequacy, you'll relate to the experiences of
Francis, Diego and Carla. They'll tell us how they came to appreciate their
valuable place in Jehovah's congregation. When tragedy strikes, it's easy to
feel overwhelmed. We'll learn how a brother who struggled to care for his family
spirituality got the help he needed to regain his balance and his joy. And in our
new music video, we'll see how learning the truth brings true comfort to those
who draw close to Jehovah and his people. This is JW Broadcasting for May 2023.
As Jehovah's servants, nothing brings us greater joy than worshiping the true
God. But we are also human. This means that from time to time, any of us can
and probably will experience unsettling moments. Times when we question our
worth. For example, have you ever wondered about your true value in Jehovah's
eyes? Have you ever experienced moments of anxiety about your place in his
organization? Or have you struggled with feelings of worthlessness? Such thoughts
can erode our joy. And we might even begin to doubt our personal worth to
Jehovah. If that has happened to you, you're not alone. Centuries ago, the
writer of Psalm 94 revealed that he too was overwhelmed by anxieties. Let's
read it together at Psalm 94 and verse 19. The writer is addressing Jehovah. When
anxieties overwhelmed me, you comforted and soothed me. Now notice the footnote
on verse 19, disquieting thoughts. These can arise from factors such as guilt
over the fact that we cannot do more in the ministry or in the congregation. Fear
of the future of being separated from the ones we know and love and despair
from being overlooked, feeling that we don't really matter. Disquieting
thoughts are real and can overwhelm us at times. They can rob us of our inner
peace and our sleep. And if we're not careful, they can even stifle our prayers,
damaging our relationship with Jehovah. Nothing would make Satan happier. We never
want that to happen, especially now, since this old world is so near to closing.
So what can help us to soothe these disquieting thoughts? In this month's
broadcast, we will find the answer in a heartwarming prophecy. We hope that
this inspired message will provide a strong scriptural basis to help you to
dispel any feelings of inadequacy. Which prophecy? Well, please open your Bible
to Isaiah chapter 56. Here we read of one of the most touching expressions of
Jehovah's appreciation for two groups of people. Both groups wanted to serve
Jehovah, but under the Mosaic law, they were limited or even disqualified from
fully participating in Jehovah's arrangement for pure worship. Who were they?
Let's read Isaiah chapter 56, verse 3. The foreigner who joins himself to
Jehovah should not say, Jehovah will surely separate me from his people. And the
eunuch should not say, Look, I'm a dried up tree. Did you notice the two groups,
foreigners or non-Israelites and eunuchs, men who physically could not produce
children? They faced very difficult and possibly disheartening circumstances.
During Isaiah's time, uncircumcised foreigners were allowed to live in
Israel, but they had no permanent ties with the nation. Because of their
status, they could not eat of the Passover meal. And as a protection, the
Israelites were not to associate closely with them. But many foreigners came to
love Jehovah, converted to pure worship, and served Jehovah alongside his
people. They were called proselytes. Nevertheless, even they could not fully
become part of the nation of Israel. How would you feel if you were a foreigner
alive at that time? Your biggest fear would be getting cut off from God's people.
Might you have disquieting thoughts at times? Consider the second group. Isaiah
mentioned eunuchs. These were men who had their reproductive organs removed. It
was the custom of Eastern pagan nations to make eunuchs out of some of the male
children, taken captive in war, and then assigned them to serve as trusted
officials in royal courts or in other settings. It appears that during the days of
Isaiah, some of these Gentile eunuchs learned about Jehovah, came to love him and
decided to align themselves with Jehovah's people. These eunuchs enjoyed a
measure of acceptance among Jehovah's people, and they had the privilege of
worshipping Jehovah. However, because they were eunuchs, they could not become
fully-fledged members of the congregation of Israel. Plus, at that time and in
that culture, they suffered great humiliation and not being able to father
children. Do you think they experienced disquieting thoughts at times? We know
they did. But Isaiah reveals something significant about this group. Jehovah loved
them. In effect, Jehovah says to them, I know how you feel. Now let me tell you
how I feel about you. Let's read Isaiah chapter 56, verses 4 and 5. For this is
what Jehovah says to the eunuchs, who keep my sabbaths and who choose what I
delight in and who hold fast to my covenant. I will give to them in my house and
within my walls a monument and a name, something better than sons and daughters.
In everlasting name, I will give them one that will not perish. I will give them
something better than sons and daughters. In everlasting name, their physical
limitations did not diminish their value in the eyes of our loving God because of
their whole soul obedience to Him. Jehovah would always remember them. They would
have an everlasting name, one that would not perish. Jehovah treasured these
faithful ones so much that he kept the memory of their service in his house
within his walls like a monument so as to cherish them daily. Imagine how those
eunuchs felt now knowing that their God had something special reserved for them.
They knew Jehovah had heard their prayers. They knew that their God felt
compassion for them. All those desquieting thoughts started to melt away. Those
comforting words started to heal their broken spirit. But why did Jehovah make
these promises to these two groups? What did he see that others may not have? We
don't have all the details, but we do have some. They are revealed to us much
later in time. And they give us valuable clues. For example, in the book of
Nehemiah, we are introduced to two foreigners who are living among God's people.
There's a significant detail about their names. Nehemiah chapter 3 and verse
7 tells us they were Melataya, the Ghibinite, and Jaden, the Moranithite, who were
of foreign descent. Yet their names tell a different story. What do they mean?
Melataya means Jaha has provided escape. Jaden means Jehovah has given ear. How
did they get those names? These men were likely born in Babylon, children of
foreigners who joined in true worship in Israel and who were later taken captive
in 607 BCE. The parents of these men were not natural Israelites. However, the
names they chose for their children reflected their devotion and love for
Jaha'uva's name. And the fact that these sons of non-Israelites would want to
share and rebuilding Jerusalem shows how they themselves love Jaha'uva. How did
Jaha'uva feel about these foreigners? Notice his prophetic words as we continue
on at Isaiah chapter 56 verse 6 and 7. As for the foreigners who join themselves to
Jaha'uva, to minister to him, to love the name of Jaha'uva and to be his
servants, all those who keep the Sabbath and do not profane it and who hold fast
to my covenant. I will also bring them to my holy mountain and make them rejoice
inside my house of prayer. Their whole burnt offerings and their sacrifices will
be accepted on my altar from my house will be called a house of prayer for all
the peoples. Jaha'uva noticed that these foreigners faithfully observed the
laws of a covenant that they could never be fully a part of. In verses 6 and
7, Jaha'uva was in effect inviting them into his home, a house of prayer for
all the peoples, Jew and foreigner alike. Hearing these words must have lifted
their heavy hearts, but Jaha'uva did more than just tell them how much he
valued them, he showed them. How? Among the foreigners who returned to the
ruins of Jerusalem in 537 BCE were particular group of foreigners who had
become proselytes, and they included descendants of the Ghiblianites, a nation
that had joined themselves to Israel and served as gathers of wood and draws of
water for the assembly and for Jaha'uva's altar. These descendants of the
Ghiblianites had spent decades as captives in Babylon for crimes they did not
commit. They had no land inheritance back in Israel. They were servants. Yet
they traveled back to Israel and helped rebuild the temple and the walls of
Jerusalem. What motivated them? They loved Jaha'uva. These descendants of
Ghiblian expected nothing in return for their service, but they did receive
something quite unexpected. After the Israelites received their portion land,
this group called the Nethanem, who did not have a land inheritance, were
assigned a place to live. Where would they be placed? Outside the city, in a
slum, in some abandoned part of forgotten Jerusalem? No, the Bible tells us they
were assigned to live in Ophol. Now take a look at the map and see for yourself
where Ophol is located right next to the temple. Jaha'uva made these humble
gathers of wood his neighbors. This underscores how much Jaha'uva loved and
cherished these faithful foreigners who motivated by love that all they could
to share in his worship. What's the lesson? Both the Unix and the foreigners
were limited and what they could do in God's service. From a human standpoint,
they were probably considered less than ordinary. Nothing special. Perhaps some
even considered them outcasts. That is not how Jaha'uva viewed them. He knew each
one by name. He listened to their prayers, and he viewed each individual as a
precious gem. Where man sees the ordinary, our Heavenly Father sees the extra
ordinary. To illustrate, what do you see here? If you are thinking sand, you are
right. Sand is one of the most common substances on the earth. To us, it
typically looks bland in an ordinary. Each particle identical to the next. No
color, no sparkle, you never see someone show off a sand necklace or bracelet.
But what happens if you look at sand under the microscope? To the naked eye, all
sand looks the same and is pretty dull. But magnified a hundredfold or more, each
individual grain of sand reveals distinct beauty. We see parts of shells and
crystals, all contrasting in shapes and colors. There is a treasure trove and
a handful of sand. That is how Jaha'uva sees each of you. Just as he saw the
faithful foreigners in Unix, for the precious gems that they were, he sees you too.
Yes, you who may be restricted by age, health, physical stamina, emotions, or
family responsibilities from doing as much in some spiritual activities as you
would like to. But those limitations do not define you. Remember that in God's
eyes, your worth as a person is not measured by how much you do, but rather
how much you try. With eternity and perfection in view, Jaha'uva chooses to see not your
limitations, but your potential. When you serve Jaha'uva, wholesome, despite limited
circumstances, you sparkle in his eyes. And because you shine so brightly in Jaha'uva's heart,
he will always help you. He will always cherish you.
Do you remember the faithful Psalmist who wrote about being overwhelmed by
disquiring thoughts at Psalm 94 and 19? In the very next line, he tells Jaha'uva,
you comforted and soothed me. By the way, who wrote that song? We don't know his name,
but Jaha'uva does, and he carefully preserved that unknown writer's words for thousands of
years in the Bible. Like the Psalmist, the Farner, the Unig, no matter the circumstances,
when you humbly served Jaha'uva, when you try your best, your work is never frueless.
In everlasting name is reserved for each of you, because your Heavenly Father cherishes you.
Even though we know Jaha'uva loves us, at times we may wonder where we personally fit in the
congregation, especially if we can't do as much as we used to. In this video, note how three
regular pioneers came to appreciate their cherished place in Jaha'uva's family, despite
major changes in their lives. Shortly after getting baptized, I set the goal of becoming a regular
pioneer. Then I went to preach an unassigned territory where mosquito is spoken. After that,
I started serving as a special pioneer, and sometime later I went to the school for
kingdom evangelizers. Sometime ago, I began to suffer from kidney failure, so it felt like I
wasn't doing anything anymore, and I couldn't go back in time. I grew up in a Christian family.
My dad worked in the construction of the Bethel branch, and then served as a Bethel I for some time.
My mom was a regular pioneer when she was younger. She also volunteered at Bethel,
and that's how she met my dad. Some years ago, I started suffering from severe anxiety attacks,
and that really affected me in the congregation. I started to compare myself to others,
and I did the same with my parents. I felt I could never live up to their example.
I grew up in a family where I wasn't made to feel. I never really felt adequate.
I felt so worthless. I felt very alone. When my health problems began,
I started comparing myself. I began thinking about what I was able to do before,
and about how my activity had gone down. This watched our study help me to see how some previous
assignments would help me to do things better in my current assignment. That helped me to think
about what I can do now. I think this watched our article came just at the right time.
I've learned that comparing myself to others is very damaging, and it was bringing me down
spiritually. So now that I've set the goal to stop doing that, I've seen good results.
I've had the chance to make good friends with older brothers and sisters in the congregation,
and when some of them needed help and turned to me,
I was happy to help them, and that encouraged me a lot.
When I started going to the meetings, I was somewhat afraid. I was going to be an adequate
to the congregation. Paragraph 20 of this watchtower study helps me understand that I should
use the gifts that the congregation, and especially Jehovah, help me to discover,
to encourage the congregation. For example, having raised two children alone as a young single mother,
being able to do that, I could help others in the congregation who are going through
the same experience. I've set concrete goals for myself, like helping to clean the kingdom hall.
Although it's lighter work, it's helped me tremendously. It gives me a lot of joy to know that
it's for Jehovah. Now I try to help out the congregation wherever I can. Speaking to an audience
might not be easy for me, but Jehovah has helped me to carry out my assignments.
And that has helped me to realize my place in Jehovah's congregation.
This has helped a lot in developing myself a steam, not to dwell on the past, on the old feelings
of inadequacy or dwell on the perfection that I used to demand from myself. I discovered I have
something good to give to the congregation. The brothers need the good deeds that we're able to do.
It gives me a lot of joy to see that I can help others overcome their trials.
Then this really helps me understand that I do have a role in the congregation.
Did you see how Francis, Diego, and Carla maintain their joy? They prayerfully adjusted their
viewpoint and their spiritual routine. Their stories remind us that sometimes our circumstances
change unexpectedly, throwing us off balance. Has that ever happened to you? If so, pay close
attention to this next dramatization. Carrying for the needs of my family is a source of great joy.
That was the life that was. One drunk driver and my wife was gone. Our two children had lost
their loving mother. The doctors were hopeful that my son might regain the use of his legs.
But in the meantime, we needed to adjust to this new situation.
My mum was such a support both emotionally and practically. She helped with the children
whilst I went to work. That way, I was able to care for the family's physical needs.
It wasn't easy. I don't know what I would have done without her.
My fellow elders were loving and considerate too. They offered to lighten some of my congregation
responsibilities. But I just wanted to keep busy. I tried to keep on top of everything.
But spiritually, things began to slip. On more than one occasion, I had to ask others to cover
my meeting parts. Hello. Hi Simon. Hi Oliver. I'm so sorry. I've been held up at work again.
Could you cover the treasure's item for me tonight? I'll see what I can do. Thank you.
I was just too tired to prepare for family worship. And the results were obvious.
Everything seemed overwhelming. Even the simple things were a struggle.
The meeting was great. But that you missed Madison's demonstration tonight. I'm so sorry.
I had to work late. Something had to give. Maybe I needed to step aside as an elder.
I needed help. So I reached out to a good friend, Simon. I explained everything. He really listened.
He empathised and commended me for my efforts. Then shared Philippians 1, 10 with me.
That you may make sure of the more important things.
Oliver, it's especially during challenging times that we need to make sure of the important things.
And the key to doing that is balance. Come over here.
Simon used a simple illustration that changed my perspective.
Just as a wheel can be out of balance, a sudden change in our circumstances can put us out of balance.
But skilled mechanics can use small weights to rebalance the wheel.
The machine told Simon where to position the small weights so that the wheel could run smoothly again.
I got the point. Regaining balance might not involve big changes.
Just a few smaller ones. I understand. Balance comes when we exercise faith.
Hebrews 11.6 reminded me that Jehovah is the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.
And James 3.17 says, the wisdom from above is reasonable.
I realise that my family's spiritual needs are one of the more important things.
And it's okay to ask others for support. Applying these Bible principles helped me regain my joy.
Our circumstances may change, but our Christian priorities do not.
They keep us anchored to our living hope. Thanks to Jehovah.
I was able to provide for my own in the most important ways.
What helped Oliver deal with such overwhelming changes?
The loving help he got from his brothers and sisters.
The support we get from others can comfort and soothe us just like the Psalmist said,
especially when the world around us makes us feel unwanted.
That's been the case with some of our brothers and sisters in Africa who deal with a condition
known as albinism. As you hear their stories, notice how they came to feel not just accepted,
but cherished in Jehovah's eyes.
Well, my years in school were not easy. Some who tease me, others who laugh at me,
and still others who use hurtful words to me.
The best you can do is to get rid of this child, just throw her away.
That is what my father was told by his friend.
Prejudice against people with albinism can be very cruel.
Those who are targeted can be traumatised for life.
Albinism is a genetic disorder in which one's eyes, skin or hair have little or no pigmentation.
People with this condition struggle with vision problems.
Extreme sensitivity to sunlight also puts them at a high risk for skin cancer.
Beyond the physical challenges, they also have to deal with unwarranted social stigmas.
In some African countries, people with albinism are even attacked or killed by those involved
in its periodic rituals. This leads them to live in isolation.
The sealer used to cry often and feel down.
But since she has learned the truth in the Bible, she has found comfort.
What helped me to enjoy all these trials was praying to Jehovah regularly and reading his
word to the Bible. The first scripture that touches me deeply is Psalm 18 verse 25.
This scripture touches my heart to know that if I continue being loyal and righteous,
Jehovah cannot forget, he will also act in loyalty toward me.
James was the target of intense ridicule. He isolated himself and felt worthless.
The scripture I loved the most is John chapter 17 and verse 3.
When I read this scripture, I was very happy because I realized that Jehovah values me
or is concerned about me. So this showed me that Jehovah loves me.
Judith has now spent 24 years in the full-time ministry. As a young girl,
she was the target of vicious ridicule. She felt insecure and kept to herself.
Revelation 21, 3 and 4. When I read this scripture,
my faith is strengthened. I feel very happy. It's only through diligent, daily Bible reading and
attending the meetings with our brothers, going out in the ministry.
This makes me strong and fortifies my faith.
Jehovah's people love and accept those who suffer from various conditions, including
albinism. Tassila, James and Judith are among those who have experienced that brotherly love
and acceptance in Jehovah's organization. There is a big difference between how people of the
world and brothers view me. The love they have shown me has helped me prove that really,
this is a spiritual family. When I am among my brothers and sisters,
I do not see any difference or think that I have different skin.
But I feel loved and happy. I do not lack anything.
This is my spiritual family. Whenever I am among brothers and sisters,
I feel happy and protected because I have shown me true love.
Tassila serves as a zealous, regular pioneer. She has overcome illiteracy and now knows how to
cope with hostility and prejudice. Despite all the negative things she faced in the past,
she is now positive and cheerful and has her life and hope firmly based on Jehovah's promises.
James still has to deal with prejudice people from time to time.
But he does not allow that to make him bitter. Rather, he chooses to respond in a kind manner.
Judith has experienced many disappointment in life. But above all, she cherishes being one of
Jehovah's people. This overwhelming, impartial love shown by fellow brothers and sisters in
the congregations is a source of support and help not only for individuals with albinism,
but for anyone who struggles with the challenging physical condition or disability.
Yes, mere man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
mere man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
Those are the words found at 1 Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7.
And it was one of the verses we saw on the chalkboard in the video.
Jehovah certainly saw into the hearts of James, Tassila, and Judith, and reassured them of his
love through the congregation. Jehovah will comfort us if we draw close to him and our brothers.
That's the topic of this month's new music video. It's called draw close to me.
Please watch and enjoy.
Oh,
and he brings comfort to my life.
Makes me feel that I belong.
He says draw close to me close and I'll draw close to you.
How help you see.
Hey, good that I see if you draw close to me.
It's so hard to let it go.
So I pray to God it won't let over him.
He says draw and I'll draw close.
I'll have to see if you draw close to me.
And I'll have to see if you draw close to me.
Did you catch the lyric in the song that said he's just a prayer way?
Those are powerful words to remember when we're faced with daunting tests.
Jehovah can give us not just comfort but also strength.
Notice how that's highlighted in this talk by Brother Lett.
The theme for my discussion is never let Satan intimidate you.
To intimidate means to try to get someone to do or not do something
by bullying, terrorizing, threatening them.
And of course, Satan is a God of intimidation.
That's one way he tries to get people to do what he wants.
On the other hand, Jehovah always motivates by love.
The word intimidate is found twice in the study Bible notes and the word
intimidated is found once in the main text of our Bible,
Deuteronomy 117, where the judges who were to assist Moses were told
do not be intimidated by men, render impartial judgment.
But now, even though these words are not used so much in the Bible,
the idea is found many times.
As a few examples, think of Goliath who was nine and a half feet tall trying to intimidate
young David. Remember what he said to him?
First Samuel chapter 17, he said, just come to me and I will give your flesh to the birds of the
heavens and to the beast of the field. Just come to me little boy and I'll feed your corpse
to the buzzards and hyenas. Big time intimidation.
Or what about the rapture cut and loud fluent Hebrew trying to intimidate the Jews
in the time of Hezekiah? San Ballad and Tobiah trying to ridicule Nehemiah and the Jews for
building the wall. Or another example found in today's Watchtower comments,
Nebuchadnezzar really tried to intimidate the three Hebrews into worshipping an idol.
How did he do it? Well, Daniel 3 verse 1 says, he erected an immense image, almost 90 feet tall,
9 feet wide. And that was intimidating in itself. But then he assembled, according to verse 2,
a huge strong of people, say traps, prefects, governors, advisors, etc., etc., intimidating
throng. And then verses 4 through 6, he had it loudly proclaimed, you are commanded.
When you hear the horn, the pipe, the zither, you must fall down and worship this image.
And anyone who does not do so immediately will be thrown into the burning fiery furnace,
very intimidating. But those three Hebrews remained unintimidated.
But of course, Satan, as we said, tries to still use intimidation today. If you don't take
this blood transfusion, you will surely die. If you don't accept this job, talking about a job
that will damage you spiritually, your family will starve. Why won't you smoke this cigarette,
are you afraid, are you chicken? Why won't you date this girl in your class who likes you?
Are you a homosexual? Today, Satan uses intimidation. First Peter 5, 8 says, the devil walks
about like a roaring lion. And often those roars take the form of intimidation,
kind of like the roars of a literal lion, according to the insight book, or calculated to
cause domestic animals to stampede and break out of their protective enclosure.
But now, here's a question. What lessons can we learn from those three Hebrews that will help
us to never let Satan intimidate us? Well, here are a few lessons. One, never quit trusting Jehovah
with all your heart despite the roars of the devil. If you go to Daniel chapter 3,
notice how they put implicit trust in Jehovah despite this intimidating situation.
Chapter 3 verse 16, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the king,
oh, Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If it must be, our God
whom we serve is able to rescue us from the burning, fiery furnace, O king, and to rescue us from
your hand. But even if he does not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your
gods or worship the image of gold that you have set up. See, they trusted Jehovah. Now, here's
another lesson. Holy Spirit will help us remain calm, not panic, give a good answer to our
persecutors. When you think about what we just read, the answer they gave, amazing composure,
amazing answer they gave. Obviously, Holy Spirit was working powerfully upon them, and we're promised
the same will be true of us. At Luke 12, 11 and 12, Jesus said, when they bring you before public
assemblies, government officials, authorities, don't be anxious about what you will say. The Holy
Spirit will teach you in that hour what to say. Now, here's another lesson. Jehovah can use his
powerful angels to rescue us from an intimidating situation. In the case of the three Hebrews,
they were rescued miraculously. When the king looked into that furnace, instead of seeing
three men bound, being cremated, he saw four walking about freely, the fourth obviously,
an angel. Now, when they were brought out of that furnace, Daniel 327 says, they didn't even have
the smell of fire. No hair of their body was singed. Now, we've been in homes where people are
smokers, and you pick up that smell of smoke very easily. Talking about singing your hair,
hair singes very easily. Some time back, I tried to light a gas stove using a match. I didn't get
the timing exactly right. It blew back, burned about half the hairs off my arm, but here they didn't
have a hair singed, not even the smell of smoke. Now, today, we don't expect Jehovah's angels to
deliver us miraculously, but Jehovah can use them to maneuver circumstances. So we find a job to
provide for our family. So we find a cooperative doctor who respects our stand on blood as just a
couple of examples, or he may use the angels to strengthen us, to be faithful in the face of that
fiery test. Now, here's another lesson we can learn. Firm belief in the resurrection can
powerfully fortify us, even if we're threatened with death. Undoubtedly, those three Hebrews,
knew Job's words of Job 1413, were Job asked Jehovah to conceal him in the grave, set a time limit,
and then remember him, resurrect him. Likely, they were familiar with the resurrections of Elijah,
and Elijah. Now, they didn't know if they'd be miraculously delivered, but they did know they
would be resurrected if they kept their integrity. The same is true with us today. And that firm
belief in the resurrection, if you think about it, stripped Satan of his power to intimidate us,
even in the face of death. You could say that hope is like our secret weapon. Now, here's one more
lesson we can learn. Remaining staunchly unintimidated will give a powerful witness to onlookers.
Do you remember what the King said when they came out unharmed from that furnace? He said,
praise be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, for there is no other God who is able to
rescue like this one. And think about this. If Netherconezzar and other Babylonian onlookers
are resurrected as part of the unrighteous mention in Acts 24-15, this experience
will give them a head start in the New World on taking a stand. Would you hold it? And think about
even the men who threw them into the furnace who died doing so. Now, if they're resurrected,
they'll be told about what happened subsequent to their untimely death. And undoubtedly,
that will be an impetus to a spiritual progress in the New World. Well, the same is true today.
When we stand firm unintimidated, we give a powerful witness and are many that are now in the truth
as a result of such witness. Well, there we have five anti-intimidation lessons. We can learn from
those three Hebrews. In review, never quit trusting Jehovah despite the roars of the devil.
Two, Holy Spirit will help us remain calm, not panic, give good answer. Three, Jehovah can use
his angels in various ways to rescue us from intimidating circumstances. And number four,
the resurrection hope will powerfully fortify us not to be intimidated even in the face of death.
And number five, remaining staunchly unintimidated, who'll give a profound witness to onlookers.
So make all of us, like those three Hebrews, be determined to never let Satan intimidate us.
Jehovah promises to give all of us strength, including young ones.
Our young brother Elijah was just a teenager when he faced a life-changing situation.
Here's his story. So how can we continue to be faithful in spite of our human weaknesses?
Growing up out of like absolutely no-help problems at all. And I love playing basketball,
and I enjoyed my life in the congregation. This was a kid who had his whole life in front of him.
It was taken away in a moment. November of 2019, I was diagnosed with a massive brain tumor.
I'm saying, like, why me? Did I do something wrong? I wanted to know why I had to happen now.
16, I'm close to 18 when I think is like the prime of my life.
That night before I was going to have surgery, it was probably one of the scariest nights of my life.
So I wanted to be able to still do the things I love. And I really just didn't want my life to end.
The count of David, that was one that was very prominent in my mind. There was many times in his life
where he had to fight foes that were very scary and life-threatening. And this situation I was dealing
with was pretty scary and life-threatening, but I knew Jehovah had my back.
We talked about getting the brothers from HLC there to talk to back us up with the alternatives
on his card. The doctor was impressed when he asked Elijah if he had any questions.
And Elijah asked him a couple of questions about the procedure and then also brought up the blood
issue. This showed the doctor that this was a young man who had his own stand, his own convictions.
If Jehovah tells me that blood is sacred and then I'm listening.
Elijah kept on reminding us that even if he doesn't wake up on this surgery bed,
no matter what happens, he's still going to wake up whether it's now or in the future in paradise.
They finally came out only to tell us that there was complication.
Elijah fell into a coma and we were waiting on answers that the doctors weren't able to give us.
It was roughly about close to five months that he was in a coma.
However, Jehovah kept providing the friends, the support. We kept getting texts telling us just how
many friends were praying for Elijah and for all of us to get through this.
The spring of 2020 is when I gradually began to wake up. It's way harder to move around as I
used to, super painful and hard. I have a taxi as of right now, temporarily in my right hand.
So I'm not able to perform certain activities as well as I would like to.
In my heart, I love basketball and I wish I could participate but knowing I can't because
something I can't control physically, it's really hard on me.
Job, he was always a great example and the Bible to me. I view him in a totally different light now
because he was also hit with a medical issue. But he managed to maintain his faith
and Jehovah eventually blessed Job for that. Since the coma Elijah's seal definitely has
it lessened if anything gets increased. He gives a whole new meaning to widening out
because we want to be as zealous and as busy in the ministry as he is.
Elijah has not accomplished any of this in his own strength. He very quickly will give credit to
Jehovah but also will give credit to his family for the amount of support that he's received
and give credit to the brothers and sisters for the support he's received from them as well.
He's been engaged in the field ministry and he's been active in doing whatever assignments we
give him within the congregation. We were able to appoint him a ministerial servant.
He's got all of this support. He knows that Jehovah is with him and in that sense, Jehovah truly
is at his right hand. I know that we have a hope that Jehovah has given us in the future of perfect
life. It gives me a goal and more of a motivation to help everyone reach that goal and get there.
There's light at the end of the tunnel. So I thank Jehovah for that so much.
Elijah, you are a precious gem in Jehovah's eyes.
Our whole program has highlighted that each one of us has a special place in Jehovah's beautiful
family. As part of the family, would you like to see the invitation video for this year's regional
convention? The theme is exercise patience. When was the last time you lost your patience?
On the road? At work? Or at home? Our busy lives make it difficult for us to be patient.
But to enjoy life, we need patience more than ever, even if it's being tested.
But what does patience really mean? Does it mean we just passively wait for something to change?
And how can patience affect our daily life? The 2023 Exercise Patients Convention of Jehovah's
Witnesses will show you what true patience is. Why we need it. And how it can improve our
relationships with others. God wants you to be happy. And as our creator, he knows that exercising
patience is vital. For more information, go to jw.org. Think of who you can share this invitation
video with so that you peek their interest. Hopefully, they will attend with us. Would you like to see
a little more? This year's convention will also feature a two-part modern-day drama.
Now, we won't give away the storyline. But here's a preview to wet your appetite.
If mom and dad were alive, they would be very proud of you.
You know what I'm thinking? You could have more. I'm talking about real security for you and the
family. A government-capentry contract. I did an update to our report from yesterday.
Malaysia groups are threatening to take over the capital. Violence has been escalating in the area.
As you are aware, the branch has recommended that we meet and discuss the possibility of
civil unrest in our area. There will always be rumors surrounding the elections.
The safety of the congregation is the concern.
There's no need to worry. These are just threats. Rumors. There's nothing to it.
We received direction from the branch. Those brothers are so far away though. I keep wondering if
they have been overly cautious. Remember, Amani. Your strength will be in keeping calm.
Are you still trusting these people to guide your life?
Father Jehovah, please help me.
The governing body has approved a new original song to conclude the convention.
I'm happy to announce that the song and lyrics are now available for download on JW.org.
The governing body requests that everyone practice before the convention,
so that unitedly we can sing out with all our hearts.
Some will need help to download the song. Please keep them in mind and provide help as needed.
Perhaps you can even practice singing the song with them in preparation for the convention.
As you can see, we have a lot to look forward to in the months ahead.
Further evidence of how much Jehovah cherishes his people.
Now, for this month's video postcard, let's travel to the heart of the Mediterranean Sea,
where we find the island nation of Malta. Malta is made up of five small islands,
three of which are inhabited, Malta the largest,
Gozo and Tiny Comino, which has an area of just one square mile or about three square kilometers.
These islands are known for their rocky coastlines and steep limestone cliffs.
Malta's location with Italy to the north and Africa to the south is reflected in this language.
Maltees is a blend of an Arabic dialect spoken in North Africa,
with Sicilian a dialect of Italian.
Spoken Maltees sounds like Arabic, but it's written using a Latin alphabet.
Maltees in English are the country's two official languages.
The many harbors and beaches found throughout Malta might bring to mind it's one and only
mention in the Bible. It was along these shores that in 58 CE, the Apostle Paul was shipwrecked
on his way to Rome. The Bible says that the islanders showed Paul and his companions extra
ordinary kindness, and many of the Maltees people today have responded favorably to the good news.
In modern times, the preaching work was established here in the 1970s.
There are 11 congregations in Malta with over 800 total publishers.
Many people on the islands have migrated from parts of Africa,
Eastern Europe, and the Philippines. So the congregations preach in eight different languages.
The brothers in Malta enjoy public witnessing throughout the islands including the port of Valetta,
where Tagalog congregation preaches to the many Filipinos who work on the ships that visit the
harbor. On the island of Gozo, there are two congregations, one Maltees and the other English,
with a combined total of 112 publishers and 34 pioneers.
The Bethel family in Malta, along with the brothers and sisters in Gozo,
send their love to you all. From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.